CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

<!---
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
-->
<!---
 +======================================================================+
 |****                                                              ****|
 |****      THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY THE COMMONS BUILD PLUGIN      ****|
 |****                    DO NOT EDIT DIRECTLY                      ****|
 |****                                                              ****|
 +======================================================================+
 | TEMPLATE FILE: contributing-md-template.md                           |
 | commons-build-plugin/trunk/src/main/resources/commons-xdoc-templates |
 +======================================================================+
 |                                                                      |
 | 1) Re-generate using: mvn commons:contributing-md                    |
 |                                                                      |
 | 2) Set the following properties in the component's pom:              |
 |    - commons.jira.id  (required, alphabetic, upper case)             |
 |                                                                      |
 | 3) Example Properties                                                |
 |                                                                      |
 |  <properties>                                                        |
 |    <commons.jira.id>MATH</commons.jira.id>                           |
 |  </properties>                                                       |
 |                                                                      |
 +======================================================================+
--->
Contributing to Apache Commons Text
======================

You have found a bug or you have an idea for a cool new feature? Contributing code is a great way to give something back to
the open source community. Before you dig right into the code there are a few guidelines that we need contributors to
follow so that we can have a chance of keeping on top of things.

Getting Started
---------------

+ Make sure you have a [JIRA account](https://issues.apache.org/jira/).
+ Make sure you have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/signup/free).
+ If you're planning to implement a new feature it makes sense to discuss you're changes on the [dev list](https://commons.apache.org/mail-lists.html) first. This way you can make sure you're not wasting your time on something that isn't considered to be in Apache Commons Text's scope.
+ Submit a ticket for your issue, assuming one does not already exist.
  + Clearly describe the issue including steps to reproduce when it is a bug.
  + Make sure you fill in the earliest version that you know has the issue.
+ Fork the repository on GitHub.

Making Changes
--------------

+ Create a topic branch from where you want to base your work (this is usually the master/trunk branch).
+ Make commits of logical units.
+ Respect the original code style:
  + Only use spaces for indentation.
  + Create minimal diffs - disable on save actions like reformat source code or organize imports. If you feel the source code should be reformatted create a separate PR for this change.
  + Check for unnecessary whitespace with git diff --check before committing.
+ Make sure your commit messages are in the proper format. Your commit message should contain the key of the JIRA issue.
+ Make sure you have added the necessary tests for your changes.
+ Run all the tests with `mvn clean verify` to assure nothing else was accidentally broken.

Making Trivial Changes
----------------------

For changes of a trivial nature to comments and documentation, it is not always necessary to create a new ticket in JIRA.
In this case, it is appropriate to start the first line of a commit with '(doc)' instead of a ticket number.

Submitting Changes
------------------

+ Sign the [Contributor License Agreement][cla] if you haven't already.
+ Push your changes to a topic branch in your fork of the repository.
+ Submit a pull request to the repository in the apache organization.
+ Update your JIRA ticket and include a link to the pull request in the ticket.

Additional Resources
--------------------

+ [Contributing patches](https://commons.apache.org/patches.html)
+ [Apache Commons Text JIRA project page](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TEXT)
+ [Contributor License Agreement][cla]
+ [General GitHub documentation](https://help.github.com/)
+ [GitHub pull request documentation](https://help.github.com/send-pull-requests/)
+ [Apache Commons Twitter Account](https://twitter.com/ApacheCommons)
+ #apachecommons IRC channel on freenode.org

[cla]:https://www.apache.org/licenses/#clas

Commit message:

Updates to prepare for the 1.0-beta-1 release

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

<!---
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
-->
<!---
 +======================================================================+
 |****                                                              ****|
 |****      THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY THE COMMONS BUILD PLUGIN      ****|
 |****                    DO NOT EDIT DIRECTLY                      ****|
 |****                                                              ****|
 +======================================================================+
 | TEMPLATE FILE: contributing-md-template.md                           |
 | commons-build-plugin/trunk/src/main/resources/commons-xdoc-templates |
 +======================================================================+
 |                                                                      |
 | 1) Re-generate using: mvn commons:contributing-md                    |
 |                                                                      |
 | 2) Set the following properties in the component's pom:              |
 |    - commons.jira.id  (required, alphabetic, upper case)             |
 |                                                                      |
 | 3) Example Properties                                                |
 |                                                                      |
 |  <properties>                                                        |
 |    <commons.jira.id>MATH</commons.jira.id>                           |
 |  </properties>                                                       |
 |                                                                      |
 +======================================================================+
--->
Contributing to Apache Commons Text
======================

You have found a bug or you have an idea for a cool new feature? Contributing code is a great way to give something back to
the open source community. Before you dig right into the code there are a few guidelines that we need contributors to
follow so that we can have a chance of keeping on top of things.

Getting Started
---------------

+ Make sure you have a [JIRA account](https://issues.apache.org/jira/).
+ Make sure you have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/signup/free).
+ If you're planning to implement a new feature it makes sense to discuss you're changes on the [dev list](https://commons.apache.org/mail-lists.html) first. This way you can make sure you're not wasting your time on something that isn't considered to be in Apache Commons Text's scope.
+ Submit a [Jira Ticket][jira] for your issue, assuming one does not already exist.
  + Clearly describe the issue including steps to reproduce when it is a bug.
  + Make sure you fill in the earliest version that you know has the issue.
+ Find the corresponding [repository on GitHub](https://github.com/apache/?query=commons-),
[fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) and check out your forked repository.

Making Changes
--------------

+ Create a _topic branch_ for your isolated work.
  * Usually you should base your branch on the `master` or `trunk` branch.
  * A good topic branch name can be the JIRA bug id plus a keyword, e.g. `TEXT-123-InputStream`.
  * If you have submitted multiple JIRA issues, try to maintain separate branches and pull requests.
+ Make commits of logical units.
  * Make sure your commit messages are meaningful and in the proper format. Your commit message should contain the key of the JIRA issue.
  * e.g. `TEXT-123: Close input stream earlier`
+ Respect the original code style:
  + Only use spaces for indentation.
  + Create minimal diffs - disable _On Save_ actions like _Reformat Source Code_ or _Organize Imports_. If you feel the source code should be reformatted create a separate PR for this change first.
  + Check for unnecessary whitespace with `git diff` -- check before committing.
+ Make sure you have added the necessary tests for your changes, typically in `src/test/java`.
+ Run all the tests with `mvn clean verify` to assure nothing else was accidentally broken.

Making Trivial Changes
----------------------

The JIRA tickets are used to generate the changelog for the next release.

For changes of a trivial nature to comments and documentation, it is not always necessary to create a new ticket in JIRA.
In this case, it is appropriate to start the first line of a commit with '(doc)' instead of a ticket number.


Submitting Changes
------------------

+ Sign and submit the Apache [Contributor License Agreement][cla] if you haven't already.
  * Note that small patches & typical bug fixes do not require a CLA as
    clause 5 of the [Apache License](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html#contributions)
    covers them.
+ Push your changes to a topic branch in your fork of the repository.
+ Submit a _Pull Request_ to the corresponding repository in the `apache` organization.
  * Verify _Files Changed_ shows only your intended changes and does not
  include additional files like `target/*.class`
+ Update your JIRA ticket and include a link to the pull request in the ticket.

If you prefer to not use GitHub, then you can instead use
`git format-patch` (or `svn diff`) and attach the patch file to the JIRA issue.


Additional Resources
--------------------

+ [Contributing patches](https://commons.apache.org/patches.html)
+ [Apache Commons Text JIRA project page][jira]
+ [Contributor License Agreement][cla]
+ [General GitHub documentation](https://help.github.com/)
+ [GitHub pull request documentation](https://help.github.com/send-pull-requests/)
+ [Apache Commons Twitter Account](https://twitter.com/ApacheCommons)
+ `#apache-commons` IRC channel on `irc.freenode.net`

[cla]:https://www.apache.org/licenses/#clas
[jira]:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TEXT
